[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> The nature of this plane of
reality is that the only beings
of all the beings in the
cosmos that take birth on these
planes, on planes at all,
are beings who have desires.
And those desires always
have to do with something.
And as long as you desire
something, there is suffering.
And the only way you extricate
yourself from the suffering
is by extricating
yourself from being
identified with those desires.
Buddha's Four Noble
Truths is all suffering,
the cause of suffering
is desire, give up desire
and you end suffering.
And here's the Eightfold Path
of how to give up desire.
That's all of
Buddhism right there.
The game is not to
stop desire but to stop
being identified with desire
because desires turn out
to be thoughts.
Go behind your
thoughts is another way
of saying give up desire.
And at that point,
the Bodhisattva vow
of Buddhism which
says, "I vow to relieve
the suffering of
all beings," doesn't
become a vow of a great
good social concern person.
It becomes a statement
of the obvious
in the same way the Ten
Commandments are a statement
of the obvious at that point.
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So here you're in
the predicament
now that you're vowing
to end suffering.
The best way you can do
it, as I said earlier,
is to work on yourself
to get yourself
free of those illusions so
that you can free others.
Because a person that's
in quicksand can't free
another person from quicksand.
That's just the way it is.
As far as I'm concerned, where
I am in my stage of the game,
there's only two of us left--
there's me and my guru.
And everybody I meet in the
universe is my guru in drag.
It catches you with
every desire you've got.
You want power?
It'll give you a power.
Because your desires
end up determining what
you see in the universe.
That's all you see, anyway.
That's the only aspect
of the guru you see.
Like if you're hungry,
you walk down the street,
all you notice is
bakeries or pizza stand.
You don't know notice
hardware stores from there.
And it turns out that
your entire universe
is peopled by the projections
of your own desires.
That's the only ones you
ever notice in the world.
And it's always your guru coming
to you saying, "oh, you still
got that desire, huh?
Good.
I'll come and let you
work with it some more."
[MUSIC PLAYING]
So interestingly enough,
when you get to the point
where you're finally at the
end point of that sequence I've
been talking about,
you recognize
that suffering is grace.
That the only reason you suffer
is because you want something,
you're holding somewhere,
you've got a stash of desire
somewhere.
And all that suffering
says is, I caught you.
You only suffer
because you're holding.
So you end up
realizing that we are
born into this plane
because of our desires
and all the suffering
that's laid on us because
of our desires is the teaching
that's given to us to free us
from the desires.
And when we finish doing that,
we don't keep doing it again.
And we do everything
we can to relieve
the suffering of all beings,
and the best thing we can do
is work on ourselves.
And no matter what you're
doing for anybody else,
realize that it is
primarily work on yourself,
and that working
for them is merely
the instrument through
which you're doing.
Now, if you've heard any
of that, here we are.
We're here where you
can go and you can come
but there is nowhere
to go because we're all
stuck in this stew
together for eternity.
And everybody you think
you are, you aren't.
In every way you think
you're going, you're not.
And behind all the hocus pocus
of your melodrama and mime,
here we are.
And we'll dance on.
We'll do the divine
dance of god.
The Lila, the dance because
that's what this is, the dance.